README.md, before:

# SDCP

A small work-in-progress library providing a nodejs front end to the SDCP. More information at https://github.com/cbd-tech/SDCP-Smart-Device-Control-Protocol-V3.0.0/blob/main/SDCP(Smart%20Device%20Control%20Protocol)_V3.0.0_EN.md. 

Functionality is provided as both promises and callback depending on your preference. Feel free to contribute if you want to improve or get extra features in.

## Installation

Install it using [npm]:

    npm install sdcp

## Getting a list of printers on the network

You can request the printers on your network broadcast their presence with SDCP.SDCPDiscovery
```js
SDCP.SDCPDiscovery().then((devices) => 
{
	//devices is a list of SDCP.SDCPPrinters
	for (var device of devices)
	{
		console.log(`Printer ${Printer.Name} responded from ${Printer.MainboardIP}`);
	}
});
```

`SDCPDiscovery` can take an optional object parameter:
```js
{
	timeout: {number=1000} 		//The amount of time to wait for all printers to reply
	connect: {boolean=false}	//If set to true, discover will also connect to all V3.0.0+ printers
}
```

## Connecting to and communicating with a printer

Once you know your printers, you can connect to them in one of two ways:

Using SDCPDiscovery. This will handle the correct SDCPPrinter type for you and return an object you can use.
```js
SDCP.SDCPDiscovery.Connect("10.1.1.113").then((Printer)=>
{
	console.log(Printer);
});
```
You can also create your own SDCPPrinter/SDCPPrinterWS/SDCPPrinterUDP (depending on protocol type):
```js
var Printer = new SDCP.SDCPPrinterWS();
Printer.Connect("10.1.1.113").then(()=>
{
	console.log(Printer);
});
```

Note that you need to use the correct SDCPPrinter type for the respective protocol version. `V3.0.0` and above should use the websocket (`SDCPPrinterWS`) class. Below `V3.0.0` should use the USB (`SDCPPrinterUDB`) class.

Note that functionality is not yet parallel between the two protocols. Some functions may fail with the error **Not implemented**.

## Remembering printers

Note that if the printer properties are not supplied on SDCPPrinter's construction (Id, MainboardId, etc.) then a broadcast is pinged to the printer to retrieve them.

You can provide the full details of a printer in the constructor:
```js
var Printer = new SDCP.SDCPPrinter({
	Id: "{id}",
	Name: "Saturn 4 Ultra",
	MachineName: "Saturn 4 Ultra",
	BrandName: "ELEGOO",
	MainboardIP: "{ip}",
	MainboardID: "{mainboard id}}",       
	ProtocolVersion: "V3.0.0",
	FirmwareVersion: "V1.2.1"
});
```
or you can retrieve this information from an existing SDCPPrinter (made via Discovery or Connect)
```js
var Printer = new SDCP.SDCPPrinter();
Printer.Connect("10.1.1.113").then(()=>
{
	var PrinterDetails = Printer.toJSON();
});
```
```js
{
	Id: "{id}",
	Name: "Saturn 4 Ultra",
	MachineName: "Saturn 4 Ultra",
	BrandName: "ELEGOO",
	MainboardIP: "{ip}",
	MainboardID: "{mainboard id}}",       
	ProtocolVersion: "V3.0.0",
	FirmwareVersion: "V1.2.1"
}
```

It might be an idea to store the properties of the printers in some form of address-book database rather than retrieving them each time you connect.

A very basic address book management system `SDCP.SDCPAddressBook` is included. An example of it's use:
```js
const SDCP = require('sdcp');
const AddressBook = require('sdcp/SDCPAddressBook.js');

if (!AddressBook.Printers.length)
	SDCP.SDCPDiscovery().then(devices=>
	{
		AddressBook.Add(devices);
		AddressBook.Save().catch(err=>console.log(`Error saving address book: ${err}`));
		AddressBook.Printers.forEach(p=>
		{
			p.Connect().catch(err=>console.log(`Could not connect to ${p.MainboardIP}: ${err.message}`));	
		});
	});
else
	AddressBook.Printers.forEach(p=>
	{
		p.Connect().catch(err=>console.log(`Could not connect to ${p.MainboardIP}: ${err.message}`));
	});
```

## Interacting with Printers

Printers are event emiters and will emit the following events:
- `connected` - When connected to the printer
- `notice` - when there is a notice
- `error` - When there is an unsolicited error
- `status` - When an unsolicted status update is received
- `attributes` - When an unsolicted attributes update is received
- `message` - When a websocket message is received that is currently not parsed

```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	["notice", "status", "attributes"].forEach(type=>Printer.on(type, (event)=>
	{
		console.log(`\n${type.toUpperCase()}:`);
		console.log(event);
	}));
});
```

The following commands are also wrapped up by the SDCPPrinter class:

#### `GetStatus ()`
Get the current status of the printer
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.GetStatus().then((status)=>
	{
		console.log(status);
	});
});
```

#### `GetAttributes ()`
Get the current attributes of the printer
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.GetAttributes().then((attributes)=>
	{
		console.log(attributes);
	});
});
```

#### `Start (File, Layer)` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Start printing the file `File` (beginning from layer `Layer`). Layer will default to 0.
```js
var Printer = new SDCP.SDCPPrinter();
Printer.Connect("10.1.1.113").then(()=>
{
	Printer.Start("Testing.ctb").then(()=>
	{
		console.log("Print started");
	}
});
```

#### `Pause ()` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Pause the printer's current print.
```js
var Printer = new SDCP.SDCPPrinter();
Printer.Connect("10.1.1.113").then(()=>
{
	Printer.Pause().then(()=>
	{
		console.log("Print paused");
	}
});
```

#### `Stop ()` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Stop the printer's current print.
```js
var Printer = new SDCP.SDCPPrinter();
Printer.Connect("10.1.1.113").then(()=>
{
	Printer.Stop().then(()=>
	{
		console.log("Print stopped");
	}
});
```


#### `GetFiles (Path="usb")` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Retrieve a list of files from a path on the printer. Returns an array of Objects that match the spec of the API (type `0` is a folder, type `1` is a file).
```js
var Printer = new SDCP.SDCPPrinter();
Printer.Connect("10.1.1.113").then(()=>
{
	Printer.GetFiles("/usb").then((files)=>
	{
		console.log(files);
	});
});
```
```js
[
  { name: '/usb/old', type: 0 },
  { name: '/usb/case_bottombig_b_2024_0409_1714.ctb', type: 1 },
  { name: '/usb/case_topc_2024_0411_2048.ctb', type: 1 },
  { name: '/usb/Casetest2_2024_0411_2355.ctb', type: 1 },
  { name: '/usb/zeroshield_2024_0418_0327.ctb', type: 1 },
  { name: '/usb/EWJmars.ctb', type: 1 },
  { name: '/usb/EWJ_2024_0512_0455.ctb', type: 1 },
]
```

#### `DeleteFilesFolders (Files, Folders)` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Delete a provided selection of files or folders. Files/folders can be `undefined` (don't delete any of that type), a single entry `"test.ctb"` or an array `["folder", "folder"]`.
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.DeleteFilesFolders(undefined, "/usb/myfolder").then(()=>
	{
		console.log("Deleted files");
	}).catch((err)=>
	{
		console.error(err);
	});
});
```

#### `DeleteFiles (Files)` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Identical to the previous function, though purely for deleting files.
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.DeleteFiles("/usb/myfile.ctb").then(()=>
	{
		console.log("Deleted files");
	}).catch((err)=>
	{
		console.error(err);
	});
});
```

#### `GetHistoricalTasks (Expand=false)` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Retrieve a historical list of tasks from the printer based on what it has printed. If `Expand` is false it will return a list of task-id strings. If `Expand` is true it returns an object of tasks (each taskId is a key)
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.GetHistoricalTasks(false).then((tasks)=>
	{
		console.log(`There were ${tasks.length} tasks`)
		console.log(tasks);
	});
});
```
```js
There were 2 tasks
[
  '1bb70506-4ad7-11ef-90e7-34a6ef373773',
  'b7f4c2f2-4aa3-11ef-ba60-34a6ef373773'
]
```
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.GetHistoricalTasks(true).then((tasks)=>
	{
		for (task in tasks)
		{
			console.log(tasks[task]);
		}
	});
});
```
```js
{
	Thumbnail: {...},
	TaskName:  {...},
	BeginTime: 2024-07-25T11:16:18.000Z,
	EndTime: 2024-07-25T14:55:11.000Z,
	TaskStatus: 1,
	SliceInformation: {
		...
	},
	TaskId: '1bb70506-4ad7-11ef-90e7-34a6ef373773',
	...
}

{
	Thumbnail: {...},
	TaskName:  {...},
	BeginTime: 2024-07-25T11:16:18.000Z,
	EndTime: 2024-07-25T14:55:11.000Z,
	TaskStatus: 1,
	SliceInformation: {
		...
	},
	TaskId: 'b7f4c2f2-4aa3-11ef-ba60-34a6ef373773',
	...
}		
```

#### `GetHistoricalTaskDetails (TaskId)` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Similar to above, but will retrieve the full details of a single (or multiple) tasks based on the ids. TaskId can be a `string` or an array of `string`s.
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.GetHistoricalTaskDetails('1bb70506-4ad7-11ef-90e7-34a6ef373773').then((task)=>
	{
		console.log(task);	//Returns a single object
	});
	Printer.GetHistoricalTaskDetails(['1bb70506-4ad7-11ef-90e7-34a6ef373773','b7f4c2f2-4aa3-11ef-ba60-34a6ef373773']).then((task)=>
	{
		console.log(task);	//Returns an collection of objects
	});
});
```
)

#### `SetTimelapse (Enabled)` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Toggle the timelapse feature on and off
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.SetTimelapse(true).then(()=>
	{
		console.log("Timelapse enabled");
	});
});
```

#### `SetVideoStream (Enabled)` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Toggle the video-stream feature on and off. If turned on, it will return the URL of the RTSP videostream. Most devices will have a limit for how many streams can be active. I have not investigated this enough to know how it works.
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.SetVideoStream(true).then((URL)=>
	{
		console.log(`Videostream enabled at ${URL}`);
	});
});
```
#### At some point I'll be fully implementing this inside SDCP

## File uploading
Files can be uploaded using `SDCPPrinter.Upload()`

#### `Upload (File, [Options])` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
`File` points to a local file, `Options` can be used to enable/disable verification or have a progress callback called each chunk:
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.Upload("C:\\Flame_Defender_Bust_2_2024_0522_2328.ctb", 
	{
		//Called pre-upload and every 1mb uploaded
		ProgressCallback: (progress)=>
		{
			console.log(progress);
		}
	}).then((result)=>
	{
		console.log(result);
	});
});
```
```js
{Status: 'Preparing','S-File-MD5': 'fd8c8c66c3ae82f1be0b544d1'...}
{Status: 'Uploading','S-File-MD5': 'fd8c8c66c3ae82f1be0b544d1'...}
...
{Status: 'Uploading','S-File-MD5': 'fd8c8c66c3ae82f1be0b544d1'...}
{Status: 'Complete', 'S-File-MD5': 'fd8c8c66c3ae82f1be0b544d1'...}
```
`Options` currently supports:
```js
{
	verification:     {boolean} 			//Whether to verify the upload
	progresscallback: {function(progress)}	//A callback that's called every 1mb
}
```

## Custom commands and handling
`SDCPPrinter.SendCommand` can be used to send commands not yet wrapped. Here is an example of sending the GetFiles command without using the wrapped function:
```js
Printer.SendCommand({
	Data: {
		Cmd: 258,
		Data: {
			Url: "/usb"
		},
		From: 0
	}
}).then((response)=>
{
	console.log(response);
});

//The above can be shorthanded to
//Printer.SendCommand(258, {Url: "/usb"}).then((response)=>
```
```js
{
  Id: '{id}',
  Data: {
    Cmd: 258,
    Data: { Ack: 0, FileList: [Array] },
    RequestID: '80f81fdf8e687f487c5bc5c2b4ed6074',
    MainboardID: '{mainboardid}',
    TimeStamp: 1722022860
  },
  Topic: 'sdcp/response/{mainboardid}}'
}
```
SendCommand can be used in various ways:
- `SendCommand (CommandId)` - Send an integer command.
- `SendCommand (CommandId, {Parameter: Value})` - Send an integer command with parameters
- `SendCommand ({Data: {Cmd: ...}})` - Define a full custom send packet to send as an Object
- `SendCommand (SDCPCommand*)` - Send a custom defined SDCPCommand (or extended classes)

It's probably better to extend the SDCPCommand classes with your own entries to expand the handling. See the wrappers in `SDCPPrinter.js` for examples.

**Be careful** when sending custom commands. I have crashed my printer by sending unexpected data.

---

## Updates

#### 0.4.0
- Initial support for older V1.0.0 UDP based models (Mars 4 Ultra etc.)
- Various tweaks and fixes

#### 0.3.7
- `Start`, `Pause` and `Stop` function wrappers added to `SDCPPrinter` class,
- Various tweaks and fixes

#### Working on
- MQTT support for more commands on older protocol versions,
- Built in camera stream/screenshot handling,
- Wrappers for timelapse downloading

Commit message:

Add files via upload
- Initial support for older V1.0.0 UDP based models (Mars 4 Ultra etc.),
- Address book handling class,
- SDCPDiscovery options provides callback for each printer found,
- Various tweaks and fixes

README.md, after:

# SDCP

A small work-in-progress library providing a nodejs front end to the SDCP. More information at https://github.com/cbd-tech/SDCP-Smart-Device-Control-Protocol-V3.0.0/blob/main/SDCP(Smart%20Device%20Control%20Protocol)_V3.0.0_EN.md. 

Functionality is provided as both promises and callback depending on your preference. Feel free to contribute if you want to improve or get extra features in.

## Installation

Install it using [npm]:

    npm install sdcp

## Getting a list of printers on the network

You can request the printers on your network broadcast their presence with SDCP.SDCPDiscovery
```js
SDCP.SDCPDiscovery().then((devices) => 
{
	//devices is a list of SDCP.SDCPPrinters
	for (var device of devices)
	{
		console.log(`Printer ${Printer.Name} responded from ${Printer.MainboardIP}`);
	}
});
```

`SDCPDiscovery` can take an optional object parameter:
```js
{
	timeout: {number=1000} 			//The amount of time to wait for all printers to reply
	connect: {boolean=false}		//If set to true, discover will also connect to all V3.0.0+ printers
	callback: {function} 			//An optional callback that is called every time a printer is added.
}
```

## Connecting to and communicating with a printer

Once you know your printers, you can connect to them in one of two ways:

Using SDCPDiscovery. This will handle the correct SDCPPrinter type for you and return an object you can use.
```js
SDCP.SDCPDiscovery.Connect("10.1.1.113").then((Printer)=>
{
	console.log(Printer);
});
```
You can also create your own SDCPPrinterWS/SDCPPrinterUDP (depending on protocol type):
```js
var Printer = new SDCP.SDCPPrinterWS();
Printer.Connect("10.1.1.113").then(()=>
{
	console.log(Printer);
});
```

Note that you need to use the correct SDCPPrinter type for the respective protocol version. `V3.0.0` and above should use the websocket (`SDCPPrinterWS`) class. Below `V3.0.0` should use the USB (`SDCPPrinterUDB`) class.

Note that functionality is not yet parallel between the two protocols. Some functions may fail with the error **Not implemented**.

## Remembering printers

Note that if the printer properties are not supplied on SDCPPrinter's construction (Id, MainboardId, etc.) then a broadcast is pinged to the printer to retrieve them.

You can provide the full details of a printer in the constructor:
```js
var Printer = new SDCP.SDCPPrinterWS({
	Id: "{id}",
	Name: "Saturn 4 Ultra",
	MachineName: "Saturn 4 Ultra",
	BrandName: "ELEGOO",
	MainboardIP: "{ip}",
	MainboardID: "{mainboard id}}",       
	ProtocolVersion: "V3.0.0",
	FirmwareVersion: "V1.2.1"
});
```
or you can retrieve this information from an existing SDCPPrinter (made via Discovery or Connect)
```js
var Printer = new SDCP.SDCPPrinterWS();
Printer.Connect("10.1.1.113").then(()=>
{
	var PrinterDetails = Printer.toJSON();
});
```
```js
{
	Id: "{id}",
	Name: "Saturn 4 Ultra",
	MachineName: "Saturn 4 Ultra",
	BrandName: "ELEGOO",
	MainboardIP: "{ip}",
	MainboardID: "{mainboard id}}",       
	ProtocolVersion: "V3.0.0",
	FirmwareVersion: "V1.2.1"
}
```

It might be an idea to store the properties of the printers in some form of address-book database rather than retrieving them each time you connect.

A very basic address book management system `SDCP.SDCPAddressBook` is included. An example of it's use:
```js
const SDCP = require('sdcp');
const AddressBook = require('sdcp/SDCPAddressBook.js');

if (!AddressBook.Printers.length)
	SDCP.SDCPDiscovery().then(devices=>
	{
		AddressBook.Add(devices);
		AddressBook.Save().catch(err=>console.log(`Error saving address book: ${err}`));
		AddressBook.Printers.forEach(p=>
		{
			p.Connect().catch(err=>console.log(`Could not connect to ${p.MainboardIP}: ${err.message}`));	
		});
	});
else
	AddressBook.Printers.forEach(p=>
	{
		p.Connect().catch(err=>console.log(`Could not connect to ${p.MainboardIP}: ${err.message}`));
	});
```

## Interacting with Printers

Printers are event emiters and will emit the following events:
- `connected` - When connected to the printer
- `notice` - when there is a notice
- `error` - When there is an unsolicited error
- `status` - When an unsolicted status update is received
- `attributes` - When an unsolicted attributes update is received
- `message` - When a websocket message is received that is currently not parsed

```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	["notice", "status", "attributes"].forEach(type=>Printer.on(type, (event)=>
	{
		console.log(`\n${type.toUpperCase()}:`);
		console.log(event);
	}));
});
```

The following commands are also wrapped up by the SDCPPrinter class:

#### `GetStatus ([Cache=false])`
Get the current status of the printer. If `cache` is true, uses the last unsolicited cached status.
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.GetStatus().then((status)=>
	{
		console.log(status);
	});
});
```

#### `GetAttributes ([Cache=false])`
Get the current attributes of the printer. If `cache` is true, uses the last unsolicited cached attributes.
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.GetAttributes().then((attributes)=>
	{
		console.log(attributes);
	});
});
```

#### `Start (File, Layer)` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Start printing the file `File` (beginning from layer `Layer`). Layer will default to 0.
```js
var Printer = new SDCP.SDCPPrinter();
Printer.Connect("10.1.1.113").then(()=>
{
	Printer.Start("Testing.ctb").then(()=>
	{
		console.log("Print started");
	}
});
```

#### `Pause ()` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Pause the printer's current print.
```js
var Printer = new SDCP.SDCPPrinter();
Printer.Connect("10.1.1.113").then(()=>
{
	Printer.Pause().then(()=>
	{
		console.log("Print paused");
	}
});
```

#### `Stop ()` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Stop the printer's current print.
```js
var Printer = new SDCP.SDCPPrinter();
Printer.Connect("10.1.1.113").then(()=>
{
	Printer.Stop().then(()=>
	{
		console.log("Print stopped");
	}
});
```


#### `GetFiles (Path="usb")` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Retrieve a list of files from a path on the printer. Returns an array of Objects that match the spec of the API (type `0` is a folder, type `1` is a file).
```js
var Printer = new SDCP.SDCPPrinter();
Printer.Connect("10.1.1.113").then(()=>
{
	Printer.GetFiles("/usb").then((files)=>
	{
		console.log(files);
	});
});
```
```js
[
  { name: '/usb/old', type: 0 },
  { name: '/usb/case_bottombig_b_2024_0409_1714.ctb', type: 1 },
  { name: '/usb/case_topc_2024_0411_2048.ctb', type: 1 },
  { name: '/usb/Casetest2_2024_0411_2355.ctb', type: 1 },
  { name: '/usb/zeroshield_2024_0418_0327.ctb', type: 1 },
  { name: '/usb/EWJmars.ctb', type: 1 },
  { name: '/usb/EWJ_2024_0512_0455.ctb', type: 1 },
]
```

#### `DeleteFilesFolders (Files, Folders)` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Delete a provided selection of files or folders. Files/folders can be `undefined` (don't delete any of that type), a single entry `"test.ctb"` or an array `["folder", "folder"]`.
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.DeleteFilesFolders(undefined, "/usb/myfolder").then(()=>
	{
		console.log("Deleted files");
	}).catch((err)=>
	{
		console.error(err);
	});
});
```

#### `DeleteFiles (Files)` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Identical to the previous function, though purely for deleting files.
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.DeleteFiles("/usb/myfile.ctb").then(()=>
	{
		console.log("Deleted files");
	}).catch((err)=>
	{
		console.error(err);
	});
});
```

#### `GetHistoricalTasks (Expand=false)` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Retrieve a historical list of tasks from the printer based on what it has printed. If `Expand` is false it will return a list of task-id strings. If `Expand` is true it returns an object of tasks (each taskId is a key)
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.GetHistoricalTasks(false).then((tasks)=>
	{
		console.log(`There were ${tasks.length} tasks`)
		console.log(tasks);
	});
});
```
```js
There were 2 tasks
[
  '1bb70506-4ad7-11ef-90e7-34a6ef373773',
  'b7f4c2f2-4aa3-11ef-ba60-34a6ef373773'
]
```
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.GetHistoricalTasks(true).then((tasks)=>
	{
		for (task in tasks)
		{
			console.log(tasks[task]);
		}
	});
});
```
```js
{
	Thumbnail: {...},
	TaskName:  {...},
	BeginTime: 2024-07-25T11:16:18.000Z,
	EndTime: 2024-07-25T14:55:11.000Z,
	TaskStatus: 1,
	SliceInformation: {
		...
	},
	TaskId: '1bb70506-4ad7-11ef-90e7-34a6ef373773',
	...
}

{
	Thumbnail: {...},
	TaskName:  {...},
	BeginTime: 2024-07-25T11:16:18.000Z,
	EndTime: 2024-07-25T14:55:11.000Z,
	TaskStatus: 1,
	SliceInformation: {
		...
	},
	TaskId: 'b7f4c2f2-4aa3-11ef-ba60-34a6ef373773',
	...
}		
```

#### `GetHistoricalTaskDetails (TaskId)` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Similar to above, but will retrieve the full details of a single (or multiple) tasks based on the ids. TaskId can be a `string` or an array of `string`s.
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.GetHistoricalTaskDetails('1bb70506-4ad7-11ef-90e7-34a6ef373773').then((task)=>
	{
		console.log(task);	//Returns a single object
	});
	Printer.GetHistoricalTaskDetails(['1bb70506-4ad7-11ef-90e7-34a6ef373773','b7f4c2f2-4aa3-11ef-ba60-34a6ef373773']).then((task)=>
	{
		console.log(task);	//Returns an collection of objects
	});
});
```
)

#### `SetTimelapse (Enabled)` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Toggle the timelapse feature on and off
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.SetTimelapse(true).then(()=>
	{
		console.log("Timelapse enabled");
	});
});
```

#### `SetVideoStream (Enabled)` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
Toggle the video-stream feature on and off. If turned on, it will return the URL of the RTSP videostream. Most devices will have a limit for how many streams can be active. I have not investigated this enough to know how it works.
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.SetVideoStream(true).then((URL)=>
	{
		console.log(`Videostream enabled at ${URL}`);
	});
});
```
#### At some point I'll be fully implementing this inside SDCP

## File uploading
Files can be uploaded using `SDCPPrinter.Upload()`

#### `Upload (File, [Options])` *(not currently supported in <V3.0.0)*
`File` points to a local file, `Options` can be used to enable/disable verification or have a progress callback called each chunk:
```js
Printer.Connect().then(()=>
{
	Printer.Upload("C:\\Flame_Defender_Bust_2_2024_0522_2328.ctb", 
	{
		//Called pre-upload and every 1mb uploaded
		ProgressCallback: (progress)=>
		{
			console.log(progress);
		}
	}).then((result)=>
	{
		console.log(result);
	});
});
```
```js
{Status: 'Preparing','S-File-MD5': 'fd8c8c66c3ae82f1be0b544d1'...}
{Status: 'Uploading','S-File-MD5': 'fd8c8c66c3ae82f1be0b544d1'...}
...
{Status: 'Uploading','S-File-MD5': 'fd8c8c66c3ae82f1be0b544d1'...}
{Status: 'Complete', 'S-File-MD5': 'fd8c8c66c3ae82f1be0b544d1'...}
```
`Options` currently supports:
```js
{
	verification:     {boolean} 			//Whether to verify the upload
	progresscallback: {function(progress)}	//A callback that's called every 1mb
}
```

## Custom commands and handling
`SDCPPrinter.SendCommand` can be used to send commands not yet wrapped. Here is an example of sending the GetFiles command without using the wrapped function:
```js
Printer.SendCommand({
	Data: {
		Cmd: 258,
		Data: {
			Url: "/usb"
		},
		From: 0
	}
}).then((response)=>
{
	console.log(response);
});

//The above can be shorthanded to
//Printer.SendCommand(258, {Url: "/usb"}).then((response)=>
```
```js
{
  Id: '{id}',
  Data: {
    Cmd: 258,
    Data: { Ack: 0, FileList: [Array] },
    RequestID: '80f81fdf8e687f487c5bc5c2b4ed6074',
    MainboardID: '{mainboardid}',
    TimeStamp: 1722022860
  },
  Topic: 'sdcp/response/{mainboardid}}'
}
```
SendCommand can be used in various ways:
- `SendCommand (CommandId)` - Send an integer command.
- `SendCommand (CommandId, {Parameter: Value})` - Send an integer command with parameters
- `SendCommand ({Data: {Cmd: ...}})` - Define a full custom send packet to send as an Object
- `SendCommand (SDCPCommand*)` - Send a custom defined SDCPCommand (or extended classes)

It's probably better to extend the SDCPCommand classes with your own entries to expand the handling. See the wrappers in `SDCPPrinter.js` for examples.

**Be careful** when sending custom commands. I have crashed my printer by sending unexpected data.

---

## Updates

#### 0.4.1
- Initial support for older V1.0.0 UDP based models (Mars 4 Ultra etc.),
- Address book handling class,
- SDCPDiscovery options provides callback for each printer found,
- Various tweaks and fixes

#### 0.3.7
- `Start`, `Pause` and `Stop` function wrappers added to `SDCPPrinter` class,
- Various tweaks and fixes

#### Working on
- Built in camera stream/screenshot handling
- Wrappers for timelapse downloading
